The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that "between 2030 and 2050, climate change is expected to cause approximately 250,000 additional deaths per year, from malnutrition, malaria, diarrhea and heat stress!” (source: https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/climate-change-and-health)
Climate change could push more than 100 million people within developing countries below the poverty line by 2030!
Meat production accounts for 83% of agricultural land and is a leading cause of deforestation!
Meat production accounts for 70% of global freshwater usage!
Meat production accounts for 14.5% of all anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions!
Redirecting one third of America's food waste is enough to feed 42 million food insecure Americans! (source: https://foodtank.com/news/2017/09/natural-resource-defense-council-food-waste/)
In 2018, the clean energy industry employed 2.4 million people, twice the number of people employed by the fossil fuel industry! (source: https://citizensclimatelobby.org/laser-talks/jobs-fossil-fuels-vs-renewables/).
Since the Paris Climate Accord in 2016, JP Morgan Chase, Citi Bank, Bank of America, and Wells Fargo have funneled over $800 billion as loans to fossil fuel companies! (source: http://priceofoil.org/content/uploads/2020/03/Banking_on_Climate_Change_2020.pdf)
The average size of vertebrate (mammals, fish, birds and reptiles) populations declined by 60 per cent between 1970 and 2014, according to the biennial Living Planet Report published by the Zoological Society of London and the WWF!
In May, sensors at the Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii – which has tracked Earth’s atmospheric concentration of CO2 since the late 1950s – detected a CO2 concentration of 415.26 ppm. The last time Earth's atmosphere contained this much CO2 was more than three million years ago!
Earth Overshoot Day is a symbolic date on which humanity's consumption for the year outstrips Earth's capacity to regenerate those resources that year. The calculated date is getting earlier each year. It is July 29 in 2019; in 1999 it was September 29. The cost of this overspending includes deforestation, soil erosion, overfishing, and CO2 build-up in the atmosphere!
As global temperatures are rising, Aedes aegypti mosquitos that carry the disease could thrive in places that were previously unsuitable for them and benefit from shorter incubation periods. A recent study published in the scientific journal Nature warned that, in a warming world, dengue could spread to the US!
The number of floods and heavy rains has quadrupled since 1980 and doubled since 2004. Extreme temperatures, droughts and wildfires have also more than doubled in the last 40 years!
Extreme weather is driving up demand for energy. Carbon emissions from global energy use jumped two per cent in 2018, according to BP’s annual world energy study. This was the fastest growth in seven years and is roughly the carbon equivalent to increasing the number of passenger cars worldwide by a third!
The world’s tropical forests are shrinking at a staggering rate, the equivalent of 30 football pitches per minute. Whilst some of this loss may be attributed to natural causes such as wildfires, forest areas are primarily cleared to make way for cattle or agricultural production such as palm oil and soybeans!
In the last 30 years, half of the world’s coral reefs have died. Human activity, as well as increased temperatures, has contributed significantly to coral bleaching!
The first known animal to go extinct due to climate change was the golden toad in 1989!
BP coined the term "carbon footprint" to place the blame of climate change on the individual, rather than the large corporations who produce most of the greenhouse gas emissions.
To prevent warming beyond 1.5 degrees Celsius, we need to reduce emissions by 7.6% every year until 2030 (as of 2019).
At the 1.5 degrees Celsius threshold, over 70% of coral reefs will die. If we reach the 2 degree threshold, all reefs will be lost.
Over six million people live in areas vulnerable to the sea-level rise that would occur at 1.5 degrees Celius.